Mobile metric spec (#682)
elastic/apm: specs/agents/mobile/metrics.md

## Mobile Metrics

### CPU metrics
| Name               | Type             | Units      | Description                     |
|--------------------|------------------|------------|---------------------------------|

> | `system.cpu.usage` | Observable Guage | percentage | A percentage value of cpu usage |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `system.cpu.usage` | Gauge | percentage | A percentage value of cpu usage |
```

Not sure what an "observable gauge" is vs. a "gauge". Sounds like OTel implementation details maybe?

Reviewer: Are the metric names meant to align with either OTel or other Elastic APM agents?
Also, is this meant to be system-wide CPU usage, or just for the application? Should/can we be measuring both?

Reviewer 2: AFAIK OTel also just uses `Gauge` throughout their spec, I only encountered Observable Gauge as a data type so far (e.g. [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.diagnostics.metrics.observablegauge-1?view=net-6.0)).

### Memory Metrics
| Name                   | Type             | Units | Description                             |
|------------------------|------------------|-------|-----------------------------------------|

> | `system.memory.usage`  | Observable Guage | bytes | The application's memory usage in bytes |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `system.memory.usage`  | Gauge | bytes | The application's memory usage in bytes |
```

Reviewer: If it's just for the application, should this be `process.memory.usage`?

https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/apm/agent/java/current/metrics.html#metrics-system

https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/metrics/semantic_conventions/process-metrics.md

Reviewer 2: > If it's just for the application, should this be `process.memory.usage`?
> 

I think both `memory.usage` and `cpu.usage` should be reported per `application` and `system`.

### Application Metrics
#### load times
| Name                                          | Type      | Units   | Description                                                           |
|-----------------------------------------------|-----------|---------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `application.launch.optimizedTimeToFirstDraw` | histogram | seconds | The amount of time spent launching the app until loaded (optimized)   |

> | `application.launch.timeToFirstDraw`          | histogram | seconds | The amound of time spent launching the app until loaded               |

Reviewer: My my own edification: what's the difference between these? Would it make sense to have one metric name, and a separate dimension which indicates whether the application is optimized (if that's what it means)?

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure if in Android has an equivalent to "optimized time to first draw". We have cold, warm and hot launch types, where essentially only the "cold" one is the actual app launch, and the other ones are we users bring the app to the foreground after it was previously launched and then minimized, so I'm not sure if we can count them as app launch? Though anyway, I haven't gotten to this part yet in the Android agent so I'm not fully informed of what we can measure from any Android app, but I can share this link for now where they explain what I just mentioned more in detail, just in case it can be helpful to get an idea of what could be some common data across platforms: https://developer.android.com/topic/performance/vitals/launch-time

Author: According to the Apple documentation `OptimizedTimeToFirstDraw` is a prewarmed launch similar to the android launch time breakdown. Maybe we should used separate dimensions to describe launch timing similar to how I organized `application.exit` one for cold, warm, and hot? This would mean to fold `resumeTime` into this metric though... and that might be different than a "hot" start? https://developer.apple.com/documentation/metrickit/mxapplaunchmetric/3901512-histogrammedoptimizedtimetofirst

| `application.launch.resumeTime`               | histogram | seconds | the amount of time spent resuming the application from the background | 

#### responsiveness
| Name                                   | Type      | Units   | Description                                                 |
|----------------------------------------|-----------|---------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
|  `application.responsiveness.hangtime` | histogram | seconds | The amount of time the applications has spent unresponsive. | 
 
### Application exit
Traces application exit counts in both healthy and unhealthy (crashes) states

| Name               | Type  | Units | Description                   |
|--------------------|-------|-------|-------------------------------|

> | `application.exit` | count |  unit | A count of application exits. |

Reviewer 2: Maybe `application.exitCount` would be a better identifier.

Author: Is it common practice to add the type to the name of the metric? should we add the type to all the metric names?

Reviewer 2: Not sure tbh if there is something like a best/common practice here.
For me, the first thought I had with the original suggestion was that it referred to the exit code of the application/process.
`exitCount` conveys the meaning better IMHO.
